API documentation - version alpha (#1)
timescale/cloud-docs-programmatic-endpoints: README.md

# Timescale Cloud Public API - Alpha Version

> This is the documentation for the alpha version of [Timescale Cloud]'s Public API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the documentation for the alpha version of [Timescale Cloud]'s public API.
```

> The API is a graphQL API, and requires an authentication under the form of a token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API is a graphQL API, and requires authentication in the form of a token.
```

- [Timescale Cloud Public API - Alpha Version](#timescale-cloud-public-api---alpha-version)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
  - [Available Endpoints](#available-endpoints)
    - [Queries](#queries)
      - [Get Plans and Products](#get-plans-and-products)
      - [Get Service(s)](#get-services)
      - [Get Service Deployment Status](#get-service-deployment-status)
      - [Get Service Logs](#get-service-logs)
      - [Get Resource Metrics](#get-resource-metrics)
    - [Mutation](#mutation)
      - [Create Service, including forks](#create-service-including-forks)
      - [Resume / Pause service](#resume--pause-service)
      - [Resize instance](#resize-instance)
      - [Delete service](#delete-service)

## Authentication

> When you signed up for this alpha, a specific token was issued for your project and communicated to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are a part of this alpha, a specific token was issued for your project and communicated to you.
```

> This token has a fixed duration for now, and will be able to authenticate you for the whole duration of the alpha.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This token has a fixed duration for now and will be valid for the entire duration of the alpha.
```

It is to be used as a Bearer token in the Authentication HTTP header as follows :

`{"Authentication":"Bearer $YOUR_TOKEN"}`

Reach out to customer support for assistance getting your token, or if you can't authenticate to our API.

## Available Endpoints

We hereby give examples of the most exhaustive payload possible on all endpoints available on this API.
GraphQL APIs returns values that are queried for only, allowing you to customize the response and hide unwanted fields.
For more information, read the [GraphQL Documentation].

### Queries

In the graphQL framework, queries only allow to read values.

#### Get Plans and Products

> `products` gets all the different plans we offer, grouped by products : TimescaleDB Compute, TimescaleDB Storage, Instance VPC Attachement, Vanilla PostgreSQL Compute, Vanilla PostgreSQL Storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`products` gets all the different plans we offer, grouped by products : TimescaleDB compute, TimescaleDB storage, Instance VPC attachement, vanilla PostgreSQL compute, vanilla PostgreSQL storage
```

            isReadOnly
            resources {
            id
            serviceId
            type
            spec {
                ... on ResourceNode {
                milliCPU
                storageGB
                memoryGB
                }
            }
            }
            metrics {
            ... on ResourceMetrics {
                memoryMB
                storageMB
                milliCPU
            }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

####  Get Service Deployment Status

More lightweight, `getServiceDeploymentStatus` allows to query for the services' current deployment status only, returning the appropriate string.

``` graphql
query {
    getServiceDeploymentStatus (data:{
        serviceId:"$YOUR_SERVICE_ID",
        projectId:"$YOUR_PROJECT_ID"
    }) {}
}
```

Possible values are following

```
QUEUED
DELETING
CONFIGURING
READY
DELETED
UNSTABLE
PAUSING
PAUSED
RESUMING
UPGRADING
OPTIMIZING
```

#### Get Service Logs

`getServiceLogs` returns an array of strings, each one representing one log line for queried instance. This call will pull the most recent payload of logs *from the current 24hr window*. It returns a maximum of 500 log entries. 

> `serviceOrdinal` is an optional parameter, necessary in case of High Availability (i.e. replicas), to query for one specific replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`serviceOrdinal` is an optional parameter, necessary in case of high availability (i.e. replicas), to query for one specific replica.
```

``` graphql
query {
    getServiceLogs (data:{
        serviceId:"$YOUR_SERVICE_ID",
        projectId:"$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
        serviceOrdinal:0
    }) {}
}
```

#### Get Resource Metrics

`getLastServiceResourceMetrics` will get the last resource usage of a service.

`getServiceResourceMetrics` will get the resource usage of a service on a defined period.

> `serviceOrdinal` is an optional parameter, necessary in case of High Availability (i.e. replicas), to query for one specific replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`serviceOrdinal` is an optional parameter, necessary in case of high availability (i.e. replicas), to query for one specific replica.
```

        serviceId:"$YOUR_SERVICE_ID",
        projectId:"$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
        start: "2022-01-01T00:00:00.000000Z",
        end: "2022-01-31T00:00:00.000000Z",
        bucketSeconds: 30,
        serviceOrdinal:0
    }) {
        memoryMB
        storageMB
        milliCPU
        Time
    }
}
```

### Mutation

In the graphQL framework, mutations allow modifying values.

#### Create Service, including forks

`createService` allows creating all types of services.

Available `regionCode`s are
```
us-east-1
us-west-2
eu-west-1
eu-central-1
ap-southeast-2
```

`vpcId` can hold the ID of a VPC created beforehand, to attach it to the service
at start up.

`enableStorageAutoscaling` will allow your instance to scale automatically to
prevent full disk errors.

`forkConfig` might hold another services' ID, to copy that service's data to the
instance to be created. It must belong to the same project_id for now.

For a single node service, `type` must be `TIMESCALEDB`, and `resourceConfig` will hold the instance specifications.

For a multinode node service, `type` must be `TIMESCALEDB_MULTINODE`, and
`nodeConfig` will hold an array with each of the nodes specifications.

> There must be only one `ACCESS` node and multiple `DATA` nodes.

Reviewer: Propose to take multinode out for now given its request-only.

        name:"$SERVICE_NAME",
        type:TIMESCALEDB,
        vpcId:1,
        regionCode: "us-east-1",
        enableStorageAutoscaling: false,
        resourceConfig:{
            milliCPU: 250,
            storageGB: 10,
            memoryGB: 1,
            replicaCount: 0
        },
        forkConfig:{
            projectID:"$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
            serviceID:"$SOURCE_SERVICE_ID"
        }
    }){
        initialPassword
        service {
            id
            projectId
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

Multinode example:

``` graphql
mutation {
    createService(data:{
        projectId:"$YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
        name:"$SERVICE_NAME",
        type:TIMESCALEDB_MULTINODE,
        vpcId:1,
        regionCode: "us-east-1",
        enableStorageAutoscaling: false,
        nodeConfig:[{
            nodeType: "ACCESS",
            milliCPU: 250,
            memoryGB: 10,
            storageGB: 1,
        },{
            nodeType: "DATA",
            milliCPU: 250,
            memoryGB: 10,
            storageGB: 1,
        }]
    }){
        initialPassword
        service {
            id
            projectId
            ...
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Propose to take multinode out for now given its request-only.
